README.md, before:

# FinChorus: Voice First AI Banking Assistant

FinChorus is a voice-driven banking assistant built for natural, fast and secure financial interactions.  
Made for Theme Statement 4: AI Voice Assistant for Financial Operations.  
This project shows a complete end to end conversational banking experience powered by real-time voice tech and a modern AI stack.

![WhatsApp Image 2025-11-23 at 22 35 41_a7be34c3](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7eb77324-a2b6-4b71-b2c3-a7161fb25a68)

<img width="1916" height="967" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/381f5867-77c7-412d-bcb3-fbe78e3c303a" />



## 🎯 Project Overview

Banking apps today are packed with features but still make users dig through menus for basic tasks.  
FinChorus fixes that by letting users talk to their bank directly using natural voice commands.

It brings together real-time audio streaming, solid backend systems and smart reasoning to create a smooth, almost human experience.

### Sys Architecture:   
<img width="1236" height="660" alt="file_2025-11-23_10 30 37 1" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b2948ca-45ae-4370-acfc-d1ab1c43e0bc" />
architecture explaination: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-gRD_t1zeTwdNjJJUZ-7EFJMr7leKOht/view?usp=sharing

## 🧩 Core Features

### 1. Voice Based Banking
FinChorus understands everyday language for tasks like:

- Checking balances
- Guiding and controlling the interface
- Mock fund transfers
- Viewing recent transactions
- Asking about loans, interest rates or credit limits
- Setting reminders or alerts
- Automatically understand and perform actions in the user's language.
- Create relationships between users.
- Instantly check any detail via self generating UI components.

### 2. Real Time Conversational Intelligence
- STT: AssemblyAI Universal Streaming  
- LLM: OpenAI GPT 4.1 mini with tool calling  
- TTS: Cartesia Sonic 3 for quick natural voice  
- Audio transport: LiveKit Agents for low latency

### 3. Secure User Authentication
- Clerk for identity and sessions  
- Backend validation for sensitive operations  
- Safe mock data so users can test freely

### 4. Modular Architecture
FinChorus is split into clean, independent services that can be deployed and tested separately.  
This keeps everything simple, scalable and easy for judges to understand.

### 5. Fully Responsive
- Built in mind to deploy as a PWA along with customized ShadCn, TailwindCSS and server rendered components.

## ⚙️ Tech Stack

### Agent Service (Python)
- LiveKit Agents  
- GPT 4.1 mini  
- AssemblyAI STT  
- Cartesia Sonic 3  
- Backend tool integration
- Server 
### Backend (Node + Express)
- REST APIs for accounts, balances and transactions  
- MongoDB for mock data  
- Clerk auth  
- CORS and session handling

### Frontend (Next.js + Clerk)
- Voice room interface  
- LiveKit client components  
- Secure login  
- Real time responses
- Updates via voice commands for each user scalabely



## 🔐 Environment Configuration

### Agent Service (.env)
```
LIVEKIT_URL=
LIVEKIT_API_KEY=
LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=

STT=assemblyai/universal-streaming
LLM=openai/gpt-4.1-mini
TTS=cartesia/sonic-3:9626c31c-bec5-4cca-baa8-f8ba9e84c8bc

BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:5000
CLERK_ID=
```

### Frontend (.env.local)
```
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=

WEBHOOK_SECRET=
BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:5000

LIVEKIT_API_KEY=
LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=
LIVEKIT_URL=

NEXT_PUBLIC_LIVEKIT_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:5000
```
### Backend (.env)
```
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017
PORT=5000
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:3000

CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=
CLERKID=
```


## 🧠 How It Works

1. User logs in and joins a secure room 
2. User speaks and LiveKit streams the audio  
3. AssemblyAI converts audio to text
4. GPT 4.1 mini understands intent and triggers tools  
5. Backend performs the requested operation  
6. Cartesia Sonic 3 generates a natural voice response  
7. LiveKit streams it back instantly
8. User then can follow up, ask questions, perform actions all via voice.  

Everything works in real time and feels smooth to use with the ability to create actions and perform operations on the frontend as well as the backend.



## 🏁 Conclusion

FinChorus shows how voice tech and AI can make banking faster and more approachable.  
By combining secure backend flows with smart voice reasoning, it brings a more natural way to interact with financial services.

Commit message:

Revise backend section and add bank-mock-service details
Updated README to reflect changes in backend naming and added bank-mock-service section.

README.md, after:

# FinChorus: Voice First AI Banking Assistant

FinChorus is a voice-driven banking assistant built for natural, fast and secure financial interactions.  
Made for Theme Statement 4: AI Voice Assistant for Financial Operations.  
This project shows a complete end to end conversational banking experience powered by real-time voice tech and a modern AI stack.

![WhatsApp Image 2025-11-23 at 22 35 41_a7be34c3](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7eb77324-a2b6-4b71-b2c3-a7161fb25a68)

<img width="1916" height="967" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/381f5867-77c7-412d-bcb3-fbe78e3c303a" />



## 🎯 Project Overview

Banking apps today are packed with features but still make users dig through menus for basic tasks.  
FinChorus fixes that by letting users talk to their bank directly using natural voice commands.

It brings together real-time audio streaming, solid backend systems and smart reasoning to create a smooth, almost human experience.

### Sys Architecture:   
<img width="1236" height="660" alt="file_2025-11-23_10 30 37 1" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b2948ca-45ae-4370-acfc-d1ab1c43e0bc" />
architecture explaination: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-gRD_t1zeTwdNjJJUZ-7EFJMr7leKOht/view?usp=sharing

## 🧩 Core Features

### 1. Voice Based Banking
FinChorus understands everyday language for tasks like:

- Checking balances
- Guiding and controlling the interface
- Mock fund transfers
- Viewing recent transactions
- Asking about loans, interest rates or credit limits
- Setting reminders or alerts
- Automatically understand and perform actions in the user's language.
- Create relationships between users.
- Instantly check any detail via self generating UI components.

### 2. Real Time Conversational Intelligence
- STT: AssemblyAI Universal Streaming  
- LLM: OpenAI GPT 4.1 mini with tool calling  
- TTS: Cartesia Sonic 3 for quick natural voice  
- Audio transport: LiveKit Agents for low latency

### 3. Secure User Authentication
- Clerk for identity and sessions  
- Backend validation for sensitive operations  
- Safe mock data so users can test freely

### 4. Modular Architecture
FinChorus is split into clean, independent services that can be deployed and tested separately.  
This keeps everything simple, scalable and easy for judges to understand.

### 5. Fully Responsive
- Built in mind to deploy as a PWA along with customized ShadCn, TailwindCSS and server rendered components.

## ⚙️ Tech Stack

### Agent Service (Python)
- LiveKit Agents  
- GPT 4.1 mini  
- AssemblyAI STT  
- Cartesia Sonic 3  
- Backend tool integration
- Server 
### Backend (Node + Express)
- REST APIs for accounts, balances and transactions  
- MongoDB for mock data  
- Clerk auth  
- CORS and session handling

### Frontend (Next.js + Clerk)
- Voice room interface  
- LiveKit client components  
- Secure login  
- Real time responses
- Updates via voice commands for each user scalabely



## 🔐 Environment Configuration

### Agent Service (.env)
```
LIVEKIT_URL=
LIVEKIT_API_KEY=
LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=

STT=assemblyai/universal-streaming
LLM=openai/gpt-4.1-mini
TTS=cartesia/sonic-3:9626c31c-bec5-4cca-baa8-f8ba9e84c8bc

BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:5000
CLERK_ID=
```

### Frontend (.env.local)
```
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=

WEBHOOK_SECRET=
BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:5000

LIVEKIT_API_KEY=
LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=
LIVEKIT_URL=

NEXT_PUBLIC_LIVEKIT_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:5000
```
### main-Backend (.env)
```
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017
PORT=5000
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:3000

CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=
CLERKID=
```

### bank-mock-service (.env)
```

```

## 🧠 How It Works

1. User logs in and joins a secure room 
2. User speaks and LiveKit streams the audio  
3. AssemblyAI converts audio to text
4. GPT 4.1 mini understands intent and triggers tools  
5. Backend performs the requested operation  
6. Cartesia Sonic 3 generates a natural voice response  
7. LiveKit streams it back instantly
8. User then can follow up, ask questions, perform actions all via voice.  

Everything works in real time and feels smooth to use with the ability to create actions and perform operations on the frontend as well as the backend.

## How To Run?
### Requirements:
1. Node.js 
2. Python 
3. MongoDB (local or provider uri)

**Steps**
1. Fork this repo and populate the .env files above with the correct envs provided.
3. Install packages in each repo by running the following commands.
   1. ```npm install``` in (banking-mock-service, frontend, main-backend)
   2. ```pip install -r requirements.txt``` in (agent-service)
4. Signup for accounts in Clerk & LiveKit to generate testable API keys.
5. In seperate terminals run the following commands in each repo to test the repository.
   1. npm run dev in (banking-mock-service, frontend, main-backend) Note: Build commands are available please refer package.json.
   2. uv run src/server.py dev (to run livekit agent server in dev mode).
6. Go to ```http://localhost:3000``` and sign up to create an account with Clerk on the application.

## 🏁 Conclusion

FinChorus shows how voice tech and AI can make banking faster and more approachable.  
By combining secure backend flows with smart voice reasoning, it brings a more natural way to interact with financial services.
